# GardenUp
Garden up!

Bioagriculture is hard due to the lack of control over variables and not being able to use chemicals makes everything even harder! Chemicals have been used in agriculture for the control of pests, making it grow faster and having artificially all it needs for a heathy grow!
Since Garden Up is a Maker open-source based project, the possibilities are endless, from vision recognition (already beeing implemented using opencv and haar cascades) to multiple axis moving arms anything can be implemented!
We put together a list of all the main variables needed for plant growth and researched ways of controlling them, making it possible to grow healthy plants without the need for chemical products.
We found watering padrons and water need to be one of the main variables in plants growth and, therefore we're using a (yl-69 soil moisture sensor) that measures the amount of water in the soil and when the water is lower then needed the solenoid will open and water will flow into the irrigation system(we've updated the system we're using since we found out that drip irrigation is not the most efficient system and we were also using too thick tubes, as shown in the video, and the pressure was lower what didn't help to an equal distribution of water! Therefore we're now using 4mm tubes with 360 and 180 degrees sprinklers for an even distribution of water). We also found out that a big percentage of water ends up evaporated and that's when we decided to add to our project a super absorbent polymer a project that was also being developed in the context of Erasmus+. SAP (superabsorbent polymer) absorbs water by osmosis to balance the concentration of sodium ions inside and outside the polymer and will release the water gradually as needed, due to the different concentrations. Using this to systems combined we're able to reduce a huge amount of the water used since we only irrigate when the actual percentage of water is low and because we're using SAP that will happen way less!
Temperature is also an important factor when growing plants therefore we're using a temperature sensor in the greenhouse to control the temperature! After reading the temperature of the greenhouse the arduino will compare the ambient temperature to the temperature needed and, if needed, it will open (using servos) two strategically placed openings in the greenhouse, one is positioned in the lower part of the structured and the other one is in the oposite side on the top of the greenhouse using this system cold air can flow in induced by lower pressures created by the ascending hot air leaving the greenhouse! When the temperature is lower or equal to the one needed for the plants growth this openings will be kept shut! 
